The Risk of Artificial Intelligence

“AI doesn't have to be evil to destroy humanity – if AI has a goal and humanity just happens to be in the way, it will destroy humanity as a matter of course without even thinking about it, no hard feelings." – Elon Musk

AI has a potential to surpass human intelligence and could result in our own destruction. With humanity’s rapid advances in technology concerns for the unpredictable nature of AI arise. Will AI be crucial assets or fatal foes to humans in future?

AI research has been increasing exponentially throughout the world, particularly for China and the United States, with their significantly larger number of published papers and patents. Currently, many large tech companies are working on developing AI and integrating them within their technologies. Examples include Google and Samsung, who claim to strive to make AI accessible and  transformative for their users.

In the long term, AI may affect jobs and services. One one hand, people will suffer from unemployment. However, depending on how AI is introduced and implemented, it may result in a significant increase in quality of life; goods will be cheaper to produce and therefore cheaper to sell; laborious jobs can be automated; people may not have to be sacrificed to war and conflict; industries can be revolutionized. AI is already presenting benefits in our world - self-driving cars are being introduced to the public; most modern software applications utilise AI for algorithms and optimisation; chatbots and virtual assistants are used instead of workers to maximise efficiency and cost..

The future will most certainly have integrated AI into daily lifestyles. However, artificial intelligence poses a threat as there is a possibility that their intelligence will eventually surpass a human’s, possibly leading to our destruction. As of now, AI is only at the beginning of its ascent, though there have already been a series of situations where AI demonstrated its unique ability to search for unexpected yet productive (in terms of reaching the goal) solutions.

The way AI works is through the construction of neural networks. They use weights to factor different elements of a subject to produce a value which is then used to form a decision. AI simply thinks differently from conventional humans and tends to find other ways to reach goals rather than the intended way. This could be hindering the use of AI as its unpredictability may be considered dangerous. Without asserting boundaries, AI could definity be a contender for our next catastrophe. As stated in the quote, once we become hindrances to their goals, AI will not hesitate to eliminate us. 

AI processes information differently than humans as they lack common sense and are impartial to behaviours humans will adopt. However, it is an obstacle that we must overcome as its overwhelming efficiency in problem solving is what gives AI potential in changing our conservative methods. What this means is, while it is inevitable that AI becomes integrated into our futures, it may well mean our certain destruction. In that case, we must begin searching for methods to create boundaries to their limitless solutions in order to successfully incorporate their remarkable ability to problem solve. Only then will society transcend past the limits of human capacity and fully transform into an automated computerized society.
